- The wisest person I have ever met,
He is someone who has left school in the third grade
The words "wisdom" and "quit learning" are in one sentence
This is very paradoxical.
Like "Jumbo Shrink".
(Jumbo Shrink is a sports team and here it mocks the team's name)
Mmm
(Audience laughing)
As an enjoyable tour
But it has nothing interesting
(Audience laughing)
Like Microsoft works. You did not hear that from me. (Making fun of Microsoft)
I used to say I love country music
But I have lived in Texas a long time
I love music now.
(Cheering the audience)
Yes
I hunt, hunt fish, I have cowboy boots, cowboys,
Yes, everyone, hear that.
Do you hear what I tell you?
(Audience laughing)
This is no longer a contradiction for me to say country music.
It is not a contradiction for me to say
Third grade, leaving education.
This is the person who left his education in the third grade
He is the wisest person I have ever met
He taught me to combine knowledge and wisdom to make an impact
My father was.
Simple cooker.
The wisest man I have ever met.
Just a simple cook.
He left school in the third grade
To help on the family farm
But only because he left school
Not to stop learning.
Mark Twain once said
"I have never allowed school education to prevent my education."
My father taught himself to read,
Teach himself how to write.
I decided in the midst of apartheid,
When America was breathing the last moments of the Civil War,
My father decided that he would stand up and be a man,
Not a black man, not a brown man, not a white man,
But a man
He literally challenged himself to be the best he could
All the days of his life.
I have four grades (the highest average at the university) and my brother is a judge.
We are not the smartest in our family.
It is my father who left school in the third grade
The parent who left school in the third grade
Who was quoting Michelangelo, telling us:
My son, I have no problem if I have a lot of chaos. But I will face a lot of problems if I don't drop and strike me. ”
A rural mother quotes Henry Ford says:
"If you think you can, or if you think you cannot, then you are right."
From that guy who left school in the third grade, I learned simple lessons, lessons like this.
"My son, come early for an hour, rather than late and accurate."
We never knew how much time was in our house, because the hours were always advanced.
My mother said: For nearly thirty years, my father was leaving the house at 3:45 am.
One day I asked him: "Why, Dad?"
He said: "Maybe one of my children will be excellent like me.
I want to share two things with you.
Aristotle said: You are what you do over and over again,
Therefore, excellence should be a habit, not an act.
Never forget that.
I know you are firm but always remember to be gentle.
Always.
Never forget that
Never embarrass your mother
Mhmm.
(The audience laughs)
Yes, if the mother is not happy, then no one is happy.
If my father is not happy, then nobody cares, but you know--
(The audience laughs)
I tell you.
The next lesson,
A lesson from the chef, over there in the kitchen.
Brown, remember that your worker’s towel is bigger than your ego.
Vanity is the anesthesia that relieves stupidity.
Now all of you are thinking about someone you want to send this clip to,
So let me say it again.
(The audience laughs)
Vanity is the anesthesia that relieves stupidity.
Pride is a load of a stupid person.
John Wooden was coach of the basketball team
But his mission was to influence people.
In the midst of the national championship and ongoing matches
Guess what he was doing in the middle of the week?
He goes to the dressing room
Hold the broom and wipe the club floor.
Do you want to make an impact?
Find your broom.
Every day of your life, you have to find your broom.
This is how you can improve your impact.
This way you will attract people so that you can influence them.
The last lesson.
"Son, you will do a job, do it to the fullest, do it the best way."
I have always been told how I can be normal.
Always prepared to be normal.
But I want to tell you something
I am standing here in front of you,
Before all these people
I don’t hear these words,
But I tell myself every day, because I seek the stars, to be the best I can be.
Being good enough is not enough ...
If you could be better.
To be better is not enough ...
If you can be the best.
Let me close with a very personal story that I think will focus all of you.
Wisdom will come to you in the worst way.
And often through failure.
When you get to the bottom Remember this, while you struggle and suffer, remember that the bottom can also be a great basis for building and growing on it.
I am not worried about being successful, I am concerned that you may not fail from time to time.
The person who rises up some of his downfall and follows his progress
He is the one who will continue to grow and influence.
In the seventies,
In order to be able to clarify my point, I want to introduce you to someone.
I met the coolest woman I had ever met.
Mhmm.
(Audience laughter)
In my day we used to call it the marble house.
This woman was the best woman I've ever seen.
There is one small problem
At that time, the women did not like the team's defender.
Blindside had not been released at the time.
(Audience laughter)
They loved the spring player and the striker.
We were in a dance and discovered her name, Trina Williams, from Lombok, California
We were all dancing
We are excited
I decide in the middle of dancing with her
I am asking her about her phone number.
Trina was the first
Trina was the only woman in college who gave me her real phone number
(The audience laughs)
The next day we walked to Baskin and Robins
Ice cream salon.
My friends did not believe it.
This was 40 years ago
And my friends still can't believe it.
(Audience laughter)
We go on a second date
And a third date
And a fourth date.
Mhmm.
(Audience laughter)
We drive from Chico to Vallejo so you can meet my parents.
My father meets her.
My dad, my hero, meets her,
He pulls me to the side and asks me, "Is she psychologically upset?" (He wants to say that his father didn't believe this woman really loved him)
But anyway--
(The audience laughs)
We stayed together for one year, two years, three years, four years
And she showed us last year in college.
I am still a student
But I do some things
(The audience laughs)
I am so glad I graduated in four semesters.
Nixon, Ford, Carter, Reagan.
(The audience laughs)
So now it is time to ask for marriage.
So she talked to her friends
It's California, in the seventies.
So you have to be outside, you have to have a candle, and you have to have some chocolate.
Listen, I'm from the neighborhood, and I had a Bonny Farm bottle of wine.
This is what I had.
(Audience laughter)
She said yes!
This was the key.
She got married to the most beautiful woman
I saw her in my life
Everyone who was at a wedding even before the wedding could hear people say
"How is this possible?"
(The audience laughs)
This question was coming from guests from my family's side.
We get married, have children, and our lives have been wonderful.
One day, Trina found a bump in her left chest
breast cancer.
Six years after this diagnosis, my two little boys and I walked into her funeral.
And for two years my heart had no pulse.
If I hadn't believed in God, I wouldn't have stood here today
If I had not had these two little boys, I would have had no reason to complete my life.
I was completely lost.
This was the bottom.
Do you know what drove me?
The wisdom of the man who left school in the third grade.
The wisdom of a simple cook.
We were at the funeral
I have never seen my father cry.
But this time I saw my dad crying.
That was his daughter.
She showed us his daughter
His daughter is not in law.
And I was completely behind my father, about to see her last time in this world
My father told me three words that changed my life there at the funeral.
This was the last lesson he taught me.
He said: "My son, just stand up, keep standing, keep standing no matter how severe the waves, so keep standing on your feet.
"And I'm not just talking about water. Keep on standing no matter how you never give up."
These were some of her last words to me as well, and I'll see you today.
She looked into my eyes and said: "It doesn't matter to me how much I will live. What matters most to me is how I live."
I ask you all one question,
A question I was asked throughout my life by a man who left school in the third grade:
"how do you live"?
"how do you live?"
Every day ask yourself this question.
how do you live?
This is what the cook would have suggested for you to live, to live that way.
You will not judge anyone,
You will appear early
To be nice,
Be sure that your worker towel is large and grandfather used.
If you are going to do something, do it right.
This cook will tell you this:
It is not always wrong to do the right thing, so you do anything.
So do everything.
This way your impact will make you change.
This way you will respect all those who passed by you.
Who invested in you.
Look at these undesirable places to seek wisdom.
Improve your life every day by searching for this wisdom.
And ask yourself every day:
"How do I live?"
God bless you all.
Thank you for having me.
(The audience cheers and claps)
(Music blaring)